---
title: Pushing Files Back to Github
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Using Secrets

> >

When working with project, it's really important to be able to store certain ids, variables and special passwords securely. For this Challenge, I want you to store a secret using Github, and retrieve it using Github Actions.

I'll give you a couple of seconds to pause the video and see how you'd have solved it.

To store a secret in Github, you'll need to

1. Go to your account
1. Find a repository that you want to add a secret to
1. Click on settings
1. Choose secrets

Now, you can create a secret that will be stored by Github and accessible, but not viewable by anyone with access to this account.

1. Click on New Repository Secret
2. Give the Secret a Name
3. Paste in the value of your secret.

Before you click on the Add Secret button, make sure that this secret is stored somewhere else securely. You can use a password manager to store a secure note.

You won't be able to retrieve this secret once you hit that green button.

1. Hit the Add Secret button

Your options after you add a secret are only to remove it or update it.

You can use this secret with Github Actions as part of your build process.

---

# Walking through the code

Let's take a look at the action that will take care of this:

```yml
name: Favorite Google Fonts
```

First, we start off by giving an action a name.

```yml
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]
```

We can specify when this action runs, and we're choosing to trigger it when someone pushes to the main branch. I'm also showing you that you can run an action when a pull request to the main branch is approved.

```yml
jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
```

Next, we ask that this job run on an ubuntu server

```
    env:
      google_api_key: ${{secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY}}
```

Now we can make a reference to the secret we created earlier by using an environment variable that will get used by our script.

```YML
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
```

Since we want to perform these actions with our repo, we want to use Githubs checkout action so we'll have access to those files.

```yml
- name: Get the Font List
```

jobs can be named since you can run more than one job in an action.

```
  run: |
```

We can run our commands as if we were typing them from the terminal. If we ant to type in more than one command we can use the pipe character

```
git config --global user.name "${GITHUB_ACTOR}"
git config --global user.email "${INPUT_EMAIL}"
```

When you run github commands in this linux terminal, you're going to be running them as if this was a new machine and whenever you are running a new machine, you'll need to configure your user name and email.

Github gives you a few environment variables you can use to set this up. I'm using the github_actor as well as input_email variables. You can get a list of all of the variables available at [this URL](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/environment-variables).

```
curl -s --url https://www.googleapis.com/webfonts/v1/webfonts?key=${{secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY}} >> fontsList.json
```

Now we can run the curl command in the terminal, which lets you pull up a website. The -s option means CURL will run silently since we just want the output of what this URL will give us. The URL option lets you specify the URL.

We want to output the results of this command to a file, so we're using fontsList.json.

```
git add -A && git commit -m "Updated Fonts List"
git push --set-upstream origin main
```

It's great that we've generated the report and created a file, but we want the file to be added to our repository. to do that we're going to need to add, commit and then push the files back to our repository.

---

# Conclusion

The ability to do something using Actions on Github and having that generate a file for us is pretty awesome. I'm sure you're already thinking about what else you can do with this technique.

---

# Finished Code

```yml
name: Favorite Google Fonts

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    env:
      google_api_key: ${{secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY}}

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Get the Font List
        run: |
          git config --global user.name "${GITHUB_ACTOR}"
          git config --global user.email "${INPUT_EMAIL}"
          curl -s --url https://www.googleapis.com/webfonts/v1/webfonts?key=${{secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY}} >> fontsList.json
          git add -A && git commit -m "Updated Fonts List"
          git push --set-upstream origin main
```
