---
title: Add an Issue from the Terminal
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Add an Issue from the Terminal

Anything that slows you down is an opportunity for optimization. A lot of times, in order to get to a repo I launch a browser, go to github, click on repos and do a search for a repo I'm working on. Then, I might click on the issues tab and start a new issue. What's the fastest way to create an issue directly from the terminal?

I'll give you a couple of seconds to pause the video and think about how you might do this?

My solution for this is the Github CLI.

The CLI allows you to take care of a whole bunch of Github tasks right on the terminal, so you can an issue started while working on your code. This is a great way to start a todo or create an issue as quickly as possible.

If you have homebrew installed, you can simply run a

```
brew install gh
```

Otherwise, there are links on the site that let you download the CLI.

Once you install it, you'll have all kinds of additional github commands you can perform. Let's go through how you can start an issue.

```
gh issue create
Title Add some docs to this project
Body ...
Add metadata
What would you like to add? Assignees, Labels
Assignees planetoftheweb
Labels documentation, help wanted
```

You start off using the gh command and use the issue command.

Now you can add a title for the project.

Next, you can write the body of the issue. Now this is where you may want to get a bit more complex with your editing so you have the option of opening this in your default editor. You can use it's full power to do things like paste some of the code.

You can add more metadata like you would directly on Github.
I'm going to assign this to myself
and i'll also add some labels to mark this as documentation and help wanted.

# Conclusion

The CLI is really well thought aout and you can do all the important things you can do at github directly on the terminal without leaving your code. That ought to save you some time in the future.
