---
title: Run a Scheduled Action
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Scheduling Actions

You've got a Github Action and you want to make sure it runs not just once or when the users push something to your repo, but everyday at 8:30am. How would you do that?

I'll give you a couple of seconds to pause the video and see how you'd have solved it.

---

# Solution

For this example. I'm using the same action from the previous video, but you can use any action you want. The trick here is that we can run an action using a cron command.

Because we're using that action and it does require a Secret, make sure you run this on a repository that has that secret stored in it if you want to use that same action.

I'm going to modify the `on` section of the action so that it uses cron to run at a specified time.

```
on:
  cron: '30 8 * * *'
```

A cron command lets you use a special syntax that lets you specify a specific or a recurring date. It has five fields

┌───────── minute (0 - 59)
│ ┌───────── hour (0 - 23)
│ │ ┌───────── day of the month (1 - 31)
│ │ │ ┌───────── month (1 - 12 or JAN-DEC)
│ │ │ │ ┌───────── day of the week (0 - 6 or SUN-SAT)

---

---

## Options

`*` The wildcard value runs every instance. So if you want to run every day of the month you would use the wildcard value, otherwise, specify a number.

`,` A comma lets you run a command in more than one time slot. So if we wanted to run this on sunday and monday only, you could use 0,1 for the day of the week value.

`-` You can also use a range of values so that if you use 1-5 for the day of the week value, it would run Monday through Friday.

`/` You can also step through a series of values. So if you wanted to run an action every five minutes. You could use 0/5 as the value for minute.

The maximum amount of time you can run something IS indeed every five minutes and remember that when running a lot of actions you might run into usage limits and increased pricing.

If you want to play around with the timing before you submit an action, a great site to check is [Crontab Guru](https://crontab.guru/), which has an interactive tool and links to examples and tips you can use when running cron jobs.

---

# Conclusion

Crontab has been around for a long time. It's a great way to define repetitive task and actions that you want to perform. It's amazing that the simple five variable spec lets you define just about any deployment sequence you can think of.

> >

```
name: Favorite Google Fonts

on:
  cron: '30 8 * * *'

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    env:
      google_api_key: ${{secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY}}

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Get the Font List
        run: |
          git config --global user.name "${GITHUB_ACTOR}"
          git config --global user.email "${INPUT_EMAIL}"
          curl -s --url https://www.googleapis.com/webfonts/v1/webfonts?key=${{secrets.GOOGLE_API_KEY}} >> fontsList.json
          git add -A && git commit -m "Updated Fonts List"
          git push --set-upstream origin main
```
