---
title: Update Certain Branches
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

# Update Certain Branches

Alright, it's time to ramp things up a bit. Nothing makes developers more angry that having to do repetitive tasks. We'd like to replace everything with a small script, so let's say you're working on a project and a new version of some library you're using gets updated. You have more than one branch that you need to push this update to. How would you automate something like this?

I'll give you a couple of seconds to think about how you'd do something like this.

# Solution

Although I could solve this in several languages, I love using bash scripting for this type of task. It's available in most linux distributions and as you'll see in future challenges it works really easy with actions.

It's a little bit quirky for programming, but you get used to it quickly.

I created a file called in my home folder called code `~/git-update-branches.sh`. Let's open that up in our editor.

```
code ~/git-update-branches.sh
```

Let's go through what's happening here.

```
arr=( "design" "feature" );
```

First,

```bash
#!/bin/bash
```

First, it's the classic line that points to where the bash compiler is.

```bash
arr=( "design" "feature" );
```

Next we create an array so that we can control which branches these changes can be applied to. If you're coming from JavaScript or another language, notice that the arrays in bash are not separated by commas, but by spaces instead and inside parenthesis.

```
for ITEM in ${arr[@]}
  do
  done
```

Now we'll do a loop. Again...the structure of the bash script loops are a little weird a for statement with a do and done and notice the weird notation we have to put the array in. But...it does work.

Next we get to issue our commands. This is where bash shines though. we can just do the same thing that we do in the terminal.

Notice the use of the $ITEM variable here, so we can do something useful with it.

Also, notice that I've commented one of these lines out so you can see how you can prevent a statement from running if you don't want it to.

```
  git checkout $ITEM
  git checkout main build/css/bootstrap.min.css
  git checkout main build/css/bootstrap.min.css.map
  git checkout main build/js/lib/bootstrap.bundle.min.js
  git checkout main build/js/lib/bootstrap.bundle.min.js.map
  git add -A
  git commit -m "Updated to new version of Bootstrap"
  # git push --set-upstream origin $ITEM
```

Once the loop is done we can write some more statements and if we want to some additional output that will print in the terminal with an echo statemtent.

```
git checkout main
echo "Changes updated"
```

Before I run this, I've let's go through how I set up my project.

I've got my project with the two extra branches and I've moved the new versions of the CSS and JavaScript into my main branch. They've been committed and are ready to copy to the other branches.

To run a shell command we can pull up the terminal and make sure you're in our current project's directory, then call our script.

```
sh ~/git-update-branches.sh
```

Now all of our changes are pushed out to our different branches and are up to date.

---

# Conclusion

I've got several bash scripts that automate different parts of my Github process. They're a great way to take care of repetitive task and can do anything.

```bash
# !/bin/bash

arr=( "design" "feature" );

for ITEM in ${arr[@]}
  do
    git checkout $ITEM
    git checkout main build/css/bootstrap.min.css
    git checkout main build/css/bootstrap.min.css.map
    git checkout main build/js/lib/bootstrap.bundle.min.js
    git checkout main build/js/lib/bootstrap.bundle.min.js.map
    git add -A
    git commit -m "Updated to new version of Bootstrap"
    # git push --set-upstream origin $ITEM
  done
git checkout main
echo "Changes updated"
```
