---
title: Merging a Linear History
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

---

# How to you Merge a Linear History?

> >

Let's say that you are working on a new feature for your project, but in the meantime someone is working on a different feature. What's a good way to add your commits after their commits without creating a messy timeline.

I'll give you a couple of seconds to pause the video and see how you'd have solved it.

One of the first commands you learn when working with Github is how to merge your changes onto a master branch.

Merging is the more common of the merge commands, but there's another merging strategy that will work better to create a more linear history that takes into account other changes that users might have performed.

Here's a copy of the project on my local machine. Right now I'm on a branch called cleanup.

To see the commit history, I can issue a

```
git long --oneline
```

That shows me two commits.

I've already added the project to Github. Right now there's only one branch...our main branch. You can see that I've done several commits to the project by adding the /commits to the end of the URL.

You can see that I have more commits on Github than in my local cleanup branch. This means that some additional work has been done to the project.

Let's go back to my editor.

I want to delete the .github folder, it has a couple of templates that I'm not going to need anymore.

Lets add and commit the changes to Github.

```
git add -A
git commit -m "Deleted .github folder templates "
git push
```

Let's switch over to Github and take a look at what's happening there.

I can see that my new commits generated the option to create a pull request.

When you merge a project you have three options for making the changes. The most common is the merge.

However the third option...a rebase will give us a cleaner history.

Let's go ahead and take care of that.

| SCREEN RECORDING

Here's how it's different.

---

# Rebase

- Replays commits at the end of a branch
- Creates a cleaner, more linear project history

Some teams actually require rebasing instead of the traditional merge methodology.

A couple of important notes

---

# Important

- A rebase is destructive unlike merge
  Alghought it creates a cleaner history, rebase is adding new commits to the end of a branch and these are similar, but technically different than commits you've done in the past.

- Don't rebase a public branch
  Because of this, it's important that you don't rebase a public branch, because to create the cleaner history, it's ignoring your original branch and making new copies of your commits on the branch your rebasing to.

# Conclusion

Learning to Rebase instead of merge is one of the first signs you're turning into a more advanced Github user.
