---
title: Copying Empty History
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Cloning A repo with an empty history

> >

Let's begin with something that might be a bit handy for this course. How do you make a copy of an existing repo without copying any of it's history...even if the repo is not yours.

I'll give you a couple of seconds to pause the video and see how you'd have solved it.

Alright, there's a few ways we can do this, but the tough part is that I want a clean history that's not associated with the original repo.

You could fork the repo, but you can only do that once and then you'd still have a link to the original.

Another way is to create a template repository, but you can only do that if you're the owner of the repository.

You can also clone the repo and then delete the `.git` folder, then initialize again.

But there's a much faster and more flexible way. You can use a project called degit by Rich Harris, the maker of the Svelte framework.

Degit lets you do exactly what we're looking for. We'll also need to use npx, which comes when you install node.js.

---

# Running Degit

The command looks like this:

```
npx degit PROVIDER:USERNAME/PROJECTNAME#OPT YOURNAME
```

npx will allow you temporarily use a project without having to download it so we can run the degit project

From there you can specify a Github Username, although it defaults to Github, it will also work with other products like bitbucket and gitlab by adding it as a prefix with a semicolon.

In addition to the username, you can specify a project's name.

You can even choose to only copy an existing branch, release or hash by adding that after a hashtag symbol.

Then finally, you specify what you want to call the project locally separating the name with a space.

---

# Sample Command

Let's try this command.

```
% cd ~/Desktop && npx degit LinkedInLearning/css-scrolling-parallax-2835103 parallax
```

I'm going to be using something like this to copy clean Github projects when I show you other challenges.
