---
title: Compressing Images and Thumbnails
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

---

# Automating Tasks

Let's try one more automation. One of the things that I do often for my sites is create thumbnail versions of certain files. Believe it or not, I used to open Photoshop to take care of this, so it would take forever to open the app and do the resizing. What I want to do is automate that so that I can execute a command to create thumbnails of files insome folder, then issue a pull request so I can review it on Github and accept the new thumbnails.

I'll give you a couple of minutes to think about how you'd do something like that.

# Solution

This one's a bit tougher, but it's a lot less code because you have to figure out a way to get the list of files.

For this, I'm going to use one of my favorite image compression applications called [Squoosh](https://squoosh.app/). It's from Google. There's a website where you can see it at work. Squoosh is both an app as well as a module and if you have a newer version of node, you can run it in your terminal without installing it.

I added a few photos to my site under the photos folder, so that's what I want to compress. Let's take a look at the code.

I've installed the [squoosh CLI](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/squoosh/tree/dev/cli) globally

```bash
npm i -g @squoosh/cli
```

It's got a ton of options, but the important thing is to try out your compression. You can do that by dragging an image and playing with the settings.

When you have something you like, hit the terminal button to copy the command and then you can navigate to a folder on your terminal and just paste the command.

However, we want to do this with a script. I've already made the script for you. Let's take a look.

I got real fancy with this one, so ,my script accepts parameters. Mainly two. One is the folder we want to compress, the other is wether we want to push this to Github.

```bash
# Show this help screen if bad options are passed
showHelp() {
   echo "Usage: $0 -f parameter_directory -p parameter_push"
   echo "\t-f Folder to generate thumbnails from"
   echo "\t-p Optionally push the branch back to the repository"
   exit 1 # Exit script after printing help
}
```

I start off with a funciton that prints out what happens if someone makes a mistake.

```bash
# Get the options from arguments passed to project
# Folder Name is required
while getopts "pf:" opt
do
   case "$opt" in
      p ) args_action=PUSH ;;
      f ) set -f
          args_folder=($OPTARG)
          set +f ;;
      ? ) showHelp ;;
   esac
done
```

Next, I take care of the arguments passed to the script.

We're asking that the files be required, that's why it has a colon at the end of the f. We can take more than one argument so we have to put this in a loop.

Then we go through the options. If the argument is P, then we define a variable called args_action.

If the argument is P, we have to create a variable with a folder name. The argument will have a value passed to it, which will be stored in args_folder.

Finally, if someone types in the ? mark, then they get the help text.

```bash
# Look for filesnames than end in jpg, but are not thumbnails
filenames=`find ./$args_folder/*.jpg ! -name '*_tn*'`
```

This next bit is helpful if we're re-running the command, I want to make sure that I look in the folder for files that are not thumbnails...no point compressing those.

```bash
# Go through each file and remove files of they  already have thumbnails
for item in ${filenames[@]}
do
  [ -f ${item%.*}_tn.jpg ] && filenames=( "${filenames[@]/$item}" )
done
```

In this part I make sure that as I go through the files in the folder, I don't process any files that already have thumbnails, so I'm removing files from the array I'm going to use if they already have thumbnails.

```bash
# Check out a new branch
if [ "$args_action" = "PUSH" ];
then
  git checkout -b thumbnails
fi
```

Before we great the thumbnails, if we asked that there'd be a push command, then I want to check out a new branch called thubnails.

```bash
# Create the thumbnails
squoosh-cli $filenames -d ./$args_folder -s '_tn' --resize '{"enabled":true,"width":500,"method":"lanczos3","fitMethod":"contain","premultiply":true,"linearRGB":true}' --mozjpeg '{"quality":75,"baseline":false,"arithmetic":false,"progressive":true,"optimize_coding":true,"smoothing":0,"color_space":3,"quant_table":3,"trellis_multipass":false,"trellis_opt_zero":false,"trellis_opt_table":false,"trellis_loops":1,"auto_subsample":true,"chroma_subsample":2,"separate_chroma_quality":false,"chroma_quality":75}'
```

Now it's time to create the thumbnails, this is pretty similar to what you get from the squoosh app, but I'm using the CLI, passing along the name of our files and placing the thumbnails in the same folder. We're going to add the '\_tn' at the end of the thumbnail name. and then finally speficy the resize. I'm only specifying the width and it will automatically calculate the high proportionately.

Then I'm specifying the compression type. I used the mozjpeg format.

```bash
# push the branch to the repository origin
if [ "$args_action" = "PUSH" ];
then
  git add -A && git commit -m "Generated Thumbnails"
  git push --set-upstream origin thumbnails
  git checkout main
  git branch -d thumbnails
fi
```

Finally, again if the push option is set up, then it will send the files to Github.

```bash
~/git-thumbnails.sh -p -f 'photos'
```

In Github it will show up as a pull request and we can even preview the files.

# Conclusion

Wow, combining bash scripting with Github is a really good combination. This generator could probably use some additional improvements, but it solves some problems I've been spending a lot of time with. That's going to free up a ton of time.
