---
title: Creating a Mono Repo
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

---

# Creating a Mono Repo

When your projects get bigger, or you just start creating a lot of projects that are related to one another, you can create what's called a Mono Repo. That's either one gigantic repo that has all of the code for your other repos in it, or you can use a certain feature that lets you create symbolic links between your repos. How would you do that?

I'll give you a couple of seconds to pause the video and see how you'd have solved it.

Monorepos can convenient, because updating code shared between repos can be challenging, but also hard to manage, since the whole thing is in one gigantic repo. For that, we can also use a feature of git called sub-modules, which I think is a fantastic feature.

Let's start by creating a repo in Github using https://github.new. We can type in a name for our repo and then ask Github to Add a README file if you want to. Although this is not necessary.

Then you want to clone that repo into your machine.

```
  git clone https://github.com/planetoftheweb/NAME.git
```

Now, lets go ahead and

Let's add a presentation to this repo.

```
git submodule add https://github.com/planetoftheweb/slides-parallax.git
```

If you look at the repo, there's a couple of interesting things happening here. First you'll notice an extra file called `.gitmodules`

That file will have a symbolic link to the repo. You might also notice that in this case, it also downloaded the repository into it's own folder.

Let's do another one.

```
git submodule add https://github.com/planetoftheweb/slides_tailwind.git
```

That's as simple as it gets. Any repo can contain symbolic links to other repos. This makes them easier to manage.

Let's go ahead and push our changes to Github.

```
git add -A
git commit -m "Add sub modules"
git push
```

Let's see what it looks like on Github!

On Github, you don't see the contents of the sub-folder, but get a symbolic link that takes you directly to the project.

It's important to note that the module and sub-modules have different commit trees. So comitting on the main repo, doesn't affect the sub-repos.

# Conclusion

If you haven't used sub-modules before, it's a great to manage related projects into groups. You can add shared documents onto the main repo and also use projects and other Github features to manage your whole group.
